All right so let's jump right in to identifying constant multiples.
Remember again a constant multiple is simply a number that's in front of a function and it's multiplying
that function.
So identify the constant multiple for f of x equals 3 x squared.
Go ahead and pause the video and tell me what the constant multiple is.
I think in this case it's very easy.
The constant multiple is three because this three is multiplying the x squared.
All right.
So the constant multiple here is just a three right.
That is it.
All right.
So another exercise identify the constant multiple for f of x equals negative 5 x to the 11th.
All right so go ahead and pause the video and let me know the constant multiple is.
All right so this one should be pretty straightforward as well.
What number is multiplying the function x to the eleventh.
Well it's negative 5.
So the constant multiple is negative 5.
That's it.
By the way if you look at the term constant multiple constant just means that it doesn't change.
So it's a number and a multiple means that it's just multiplying.
Think of it like that.
So it's a constant That's multiplying the function.
All right.
So the last exercise says identify the constant multiple for half of X equals x to the fourth.
I'll give you a little hint.
It's kind of a trick question but go ahead and pause the video and give it a shot.
All right.
So f of x equals x to the fourth and we're identifying the constant multiple.
Maybe you said the constant multiple was zero because there's nothing here and that is a good guess.
However that is not the right answer.
Why.
Because if you said 0.
Think of it like this.
If 0 is a constant multiple and zeros multiplying X to the fourth then what is 0 times x to the fourth.
It is zero and we don't want 0 we want x to the fourth So 0 cannot be the answer.
On the other hand there is a number that sometimes we do not mark.
We just assume that it's there.
And of course that number is 1.
So the constant multiple here is 1.
We don't market.
But it's there.
Why is it there.
Because 1 times x to the fourth is X and the fourth right
1 times.
Something else is always equal to that something else.
So constant multiple Here is one we don't really market.
And we actually pretend that it's not there.
All right we'll just have X to the fourth.
All right.
That's pretty much it for identifying constant multiples.
Again this is super easy.
Just look at the number that's multiplying the function and that's it.
Next we'll actually apply the constant multiple rule.